# Spring Boot - 2.5.0 Upgrade - May 2021

**CHECK FONT SIZE IN WORKSPACE**


## 127. Step 01 - Setting up Limits Microservice - V2 - Full Rerecord

Welcome back. I'm sure you are all tired with all the theory that we have discussed until now. It's time to get our hands dirty. We'll create a microservice called the Limits Microservice and then we'll set up a Spring Cloud Config Server which would be connected to a Git Repository. Let's get started with setting up the limits microservice. 
How do we create a microservice? We will go to my favorite place on the Internet, start.spring.io. I would want to create a Maven project. You can choose any of the latest released versions. How do you identify released versions? These released versions do not have any suffix. They don't have M2 or SNAPSHOT or anything attached with that. So, the latest released version I see right now is 2.5.0. So, I'll choose 2.5.0 as the Spring Boot release we would want to use. GroupID - com.in28minutes.microservices and the Artifact ID limits-service. Dependencies - Web (simple REST API), DevTools (fast application restarts, LiveReload It provides us with enhanced development experience) Actuator (provides monitoring and management around our application) We want to connect this microservice to Spring Cloud Config server. And how do we do that? For that we would need a config client. So, SPRING CLOUD CONFIG Client, client that connects to a spring Cloud config server to fetch the application's configuration.
Review configuration > Generate > Download and Import
group id is com.in28minutes. microservices, the artifact ID is limits-service, I copied it down to Spring Microservices; 03.microservices; limits-service, Open. You can see that there are no spaces in this specific path. 
Make sure that you don't have any spaces because spaces can give you problems with microservices, especially when we are talking about Cloud config server. If you have a space, I would recommend you to actually rename the folder and then import it in. Let's go ahead and say finish now. Cool, the limits-service is now being imported in. If this is the first time you are using this specific version of Spring Boot and Spring Cloud, then the import would take a long time. 
Starting Spring Boot 2.5, to use spring-cloud-starter-config, you need this configuration in application.properties - `spring.config.import=optional:configserver:http://localhost:8888` (You might not see this configuration in application.properties in the next steps - Do Not worry)
What I would recommend you to do is to take a break and I'll see you on the other side.

## Step 07 - Connect Limits Service to Spring Cloud Config Server - V2 - Partial Rerecord

Welcome back. In the last step, we connected Spring Cloud Config Server to the GitHub Repo and it's time now to connect the Limits service to the Spring Cloud Config Server. How do we connect the Limits service to the Spring Cloud Config Server?Let's get started.
One of the most important prerequisites is in our pom.xml. When we created this project, we already selected spring-cloud-starter-config. This is the client project that is needed to enable Limits service to talk to the centralized configuration server.
And the next thing that we would want to do is to configure the URL of the Cloud Config Server in the application.properties.
What is the URL of the Cloud Config Server? localhost:8888. So let's pick that up. So, this is the value that we would want to configure as the URL of the Cloud Config Server. Make sure that you are configuring this in the application.properties in limits-service.So, what do we want to do is to import the configuration for the application from the Cloud Config Server. In earlier versions of Spring Boot, we needed to create a separate file called bootstrap.properties, but it is not really needed anymore. You can directly connect to the Spring Cloud Config Server and import the configuration from application.properties itself. So, you can do a spring.config.import is equal to and we would want an optional config server.So, it's optional:configserver: followed by the URL of the config server.
This is a little complex, right. So,spring.config.import=optional:configserver:http://localhost:8888. We are saying the config server is optional. So, even if there is a failure in connecting to the config server, the application would launch up. If you'd want to actually make it mandatory, then you can actually remove the optional element. I'll leave the optional in and I'll say configserver:http://localhost:8888. 

## Step 10 - Setting up Currency Exchange Microservice - V2
Video Editing Only

##  Step 13 - Configure JPA and Initialized Data - V2

We have created data.sql file. We want this to be loaded after the tables are created. By default, with the latest version of spring boot, the load of data.sql is done before the tables are created. Yup, that sounds strange, but that's how it is.

Because of that, we would need to add an additional configuration into our application.properties `spring.jpa.defer-datasource-initialization=true`

Let's configure that now.

## 147. Step 15 - Setting up Currency Conversion Microservice - V2
Video Editing Only 

## 152. Step 19 - Understand Naming Server and Setting up Eureka Naming Server - V2 - Partial Rerecord

Let's get our hands dirty and understand that further. Let's get started with creating a Naming Server in Spring Cloud. One of the options to do that is Eureka. So, I'll go into start.spring.io and over here I'll change the Artifact id to naming-server. So, com.in28minutes.microservices is the group id, the artifact id naming-server. 
Remove all the dependencies
Add DevTools, Actuator and I would add in another dependancy, which is Eureka. So, we'd want to add in Spring Cloud Discovery using Eureka Server. So, spring-cloud-netflix Eureka Server. Let's add this in and let's go ahead and say generate.

## 157. Step 22 - Setting up Spring Cloud API Gateway

Let's go over to start.spring.io. The last project we created was naming-server and now we would want to create an API gateway. So, group ID is com.in28minutes.microservices, artifact ID is api-gateway, and I would remove the Eureka server. We would want Actuator, Spring Boot DevTools. We would want it to connect to Eureka. So, we would add in Eureka Discovery Client. So, Spring Cloud Discovery, Eureka Discovery client. Let's add that in and we would want to add in API gateway. So, that's the primary thing that we are doing in here.We are creating an API gateway. So, gateway is Spring Cloud Routing. It provides a simple yet effective way to route to APIs and it provides cross cutting concerns to them such as security, monitoring/metrics, and resiliency. Let's add this in and let's generate the project. A zip would be downloaded.

## 192. Step 21 - Running Zipkin and RabbitMQ with Docker Compose

ONLY VIDEO EDITING!

RECOMMENDED: Use rabbitmq:3.8.12-management

If you have problems, Try adding restart: always




## 2. Step 01 - Initializing a RESTful Services Project with Spring Boot


Welcome to this step where we would set up a project using spring initialiser. We’d want to build our RESTful web services. What we’ll do is, we’ll use start dot spring dot io to initialize our spring project. We would want to generate a Maven project because Maven is the build tool that we're going to use. Language is Java.
We would want to use the latest released version of Spring Boot available. 	<groupId>com.in28minutes.rest.webservices</groupId> <artifactId>restful-web-services</artifactId> For any Maven project we’d need to give a group Id and an artifact Id. You can kind of compare this like a class name and package. 
We would also want to add a few dependencies: 1) web - spring boot start web dependency. We're going to build RESTFul web services. Spring boot starter web is the starter for developing restful Web services. It is also the starter for developing web applications. 2) Devtools. Dev tools make it easy for developing application. So I’ll add tools in. I would want to use JPA at a later point in this course. 3) JPA and I would want to use H2 as in-memory database. Let's add 4) H2 in as well. Once you do that, you can click generate project. 
What Spring initialiser does is it would create a Maven project. Put it in a zip and that’s what is downloaded to your downloads folder. Download and import into Eclipse. Once you click finish what Maven does is, it would actually download all the dependencies which are listed in the pom dot xml. And it would also set up the entire project for us. So let's go ahead and click the finish button. This might take a little while if this is the first time you are using this specific version of spring boot because this downloads a lot of Maven dependencies. What is happening in the background is the complete setup of our RESTful Web services projects. Once the project is set up, you’d see a folder structure like this. This is typical Maven project structure. src/main/java - source java code. src/main/resource for configuration files (application dot properties which is the spring boot properties file) src/test/java (for your unit test java code). We also have a pom dot xml which contains the dependencies which we have chosen. The pom dot xml contains the dependencies starter data JPA, starter web, dev tools, H2 and starter test. These four…the first four dependencies are what we have chosen on the start dot spring dot io website. Web, dev tools, JPA and H2. That's what we chose and those were the dependencies which were in here. And by default spring initialiser would add in a dependency on spring boot starter test. This is the one to write your unit test and integration test. If you go and look at your Maven dependencies, you should see a lot of dependencies which are coming in because of this starters we are using. Now that we have an overview of the project that we are looking at, let's start up the spring boot application class. Right click, run as Java application. We have not really written any code as of now. But that's fine. We will write a lot of code in the next steps. For now, what we wanted to check is if the application is launching up fine. If the application launches up fine then we are good to go. You can see that there is a lot of log being generated and you would see by the end of the thing that the Tomcat server has started up. So you can see that Tomcat has started on ports 8080. There’s a lot of magic which is happening in the background. We will uncover all that magic in the subsequent steps as we develop more and more restful services Until the next step, bye-bye


## End of Step 15 Code 
- Import backup06-after-implementing-validation
- Get PostMan Ready with a Few Requests
	- Get to http://localhost:8080/users/1
	- Get to http://localhost:8080/users

## ADD ON BEFORE Step 15 - Implementing Validations for RESTful Services

If you are making use of Spring Boot Release (> 2.3.0) make sure to add the following dependency to your pom.xml (We are going to implement validations in next step):

<dependency>    
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>    
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-validation</artifactId>
</dependency>

RECOMMENDATION

Stop and start your server again after adding the dependency.

If you are of the curious kind:

Here's the reason you need to add the dependency - https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/issues/19550

### /step-16-implementing-hateoas-for-restful-servicesautogenerated.vtt

Until now, in the last few steps, we created a number of resources and we performed different operations on the resources. Get, Delete, Post and different things like that. 
Until now, what we have been doing is, when you call a URI we returned all the data back. So when a get request was sent to the resource - users, we sent all the data for the resources back. When we send get requests to a specific user. We send the data for that specific user back. 
However, I think in terms of web applications. We are on our Github home page. in28minutes. I’m looking at the different repositories which are present in here. So there are a lot of repositories which are present in here which are displayed in a web page. In a web page, along with the data I’m requesting, so and getting the repositories back. I’m not just getting the repositories back but I'm also getting links to do certain actions. I can star this repository, I can fork this repository. I can see what are the different stars that in28minutes has got. And who are the followers and all that kind of stuff. I can easily do on a web page. When I'm asking for repositories, a web page not only retrieves repositories but also shows the different links that enable me to perform other operations and to request other data. 

The same concept when we extend it to REST API. So when I’m asked for a resource, I’ll not just give the specific resource back. 

What I’ll do is, I’ll also give other resources which might be useful. For example, when request comes to user slash one, I’ll also give a link to the users so that you can get all user details from there. This concept is called HATEOAS. hyper media as the engine of application state. That's what HATEOAS stands for. 

So what we’ll do in this example, in this small step, is we would take one of the resources that we are exposing. So we will pick up the retrieve user. So we would want to use HATEOAS concepts in here. How do we do that and what will we do? Let's look at that in this specific step. 
What I want to do here is when a retrieve user is called, I’d also want to return a link for the users. So when a request is made to slash user slash one, I would want to return the data for that user. And also tell how you can get the data for all the users. How can I do that? 

There's a Spring Boot starter for that. Let's open up the pom dot xml and just below starter web I'll add in that dependency. 
<dependency>
			<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
			<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-hateoas</artifactId>
		</dependency>

One of the ways I can do that is by defining an object structure and setting a link saying OK all users the link to all users, I can say, I can write some logic very easily, right?  And say the link to all users is, I can find the server path and append it in here. So I can say server path, or the context root path and slash user. I can do something of this kind where I can hardcode stuff in here. However, let's say somebody comes in at a later point and this is not slash users but let’s say it’s changed to users something else. Then we’d need to remember to modify all the links to it as well. And that's not really good, right? If I hardcode stuff it's not really good. 

Spring Boot HATEOAS starter enables us to easily add links using the methods. What we'll do is we'll say we would want to add the link to this method. So I would want to add the link to the resource which is exposed by retrieve all users. Thereby whenever something changes in the URL, we are not really affected because that is the method and URL from that is picked up and returned back. What do I mean? Let's look at it right now. 

```
import static org.springframework.hateoas.server.mvc.WebMvcLinkBuilder.linkTo;
import static org.springframework.hateoas.server.mvc.WebMvcLinkBuilder.methodOn;
@GetMapping("/jpa/users/{id}")
public EntityModel<User> retrieveUser(@PathVariable int id) {
	Optional<User> user = userRepository.findById(id);

	if (!user.isPresent())
		throw new UserNotFoundException("id-" + id);

	// "all-users", SERVER_PATH + "/users"
	// retrieveAllUsers
	EntityModel<User> resource = EntityModel.of(user.get());//new EntityModel<User>(user.get());

	WebMvcLinkBuilder linkTo = linkTo(methodOn(this.getClass()).retrieveAllUsers());

	resource.add(linkTo.withRel("all-users"));

	// HATEOAS

	return resource;
}
```
what we're doing is instead of just returning the data we are returning a resource which has both data and links. Over here you can add other resources and other links as well. For now, let’s just restrict ourselves to just adding one link, one HATEOAS link. And let's go to postman and let's execute the request again. If you get this error class not found or framework HATEOAS resource, don't worry! All that you need to do is stop the server. There’s a change in the jar that we are using. So you need to restart our application to pick that up.
I have not seen the concept of HATEOAS used especially well in a lot of applications. So this is one of the things which is still something which we are trying to understand. What would be the best way to use it. So it's good that you are understanding the concept of HATEOAS as we repeatedly stress in this course. The end objective of any facility that we provide in our RESTful web services should be the consumers of the RESTful webservices. So when we implement HATEOAS, also think to make it very easy for your end customers to use them. Until the next step, bye-bye.

### /step-17-overview-of-advanced-restful-service-featuresautogenerated.vtt

Now that we have a basic REST web service ready, we will shift our attention towards more advanced topics which are related to restful Web services. We would talk about things like - how do you internationalize your RESTful Web services? How do you do something called content negotiation? How do you do versioning? How do you filter JSON content? I don't want to send a specific attribute on a bean back. How do I do that? How do I document my web services? And how do I monitor my web services? Those are the different concepts that we would learn in the next few sections. I will see you in the first video of this section on internationalization. I eighteen N.

### /step-18-internationalization-for-restful-servicesautogenerated.vtt

Remember to restart after adding messages.properties!

Welcome to this video where we're going to talk about internationalization. What is internationalization? It's also called I18in. There are 18 characters here. So, it's I18n. 
Internationalization is nothing that customizing your services for different people around the world. What do I mean by that? Let's look at an example. 

ApplicationContext interface extends an interface called MessageSource and, therefore, provides internationalization (“i18n”) functionality.

org.springframework.context.support.ResourceBundleMessageSource

NOT NEEDED BUT DEFAULT - spring.messages.basename=messages

```
	@Autowired
	private MessageSource messageSource; 

@GetMapping(path = "/hello-world-internationalized")
public String helloWorldInternationalized(
    @RequestHeader(name="Accept-Language", required=false) Locale locale) {
  return messageSource.getMessage("good.morning.message", null, locale);
}

@GetMapping(path = "/hello-world-internationalized")
public String helloWorldInternationalized() {
	//return messageSource.getMessage("good.morning.message", null
	return messageSource.getMessage("good.morning.message", null, 
								LocaleContextHolder.getLocale());
}

/src/main/resources/messages.properties

good.morning.message=Good Morning
/src/main/resources/messages_fr.properties

good.morning.message=Bonjour
/src/main/resources/messages_nl.properties

good.morning.message=Goede Morgen

spring.messages.basename=messages??
```

#### Internationalization

##### Configuration 
- LocaleResolver
   - Default Locale - Locale.US
- ResourceBundleMessageSource

##### Usage
- Autowire MessageSource
- @RequestHeader(value = "Accept-Language", required = false) Locale locale
- messageSource.getMessage("helloWorld.message", null, locale)


Let's open up the HelloWorldController that we created earlier. Create hello-world-internationalized and let's say this is returning Good Morning. Now, if I invoke this service, the result, you already know, right, it would return back Good Morning. That's basically what is happening in here. However, let's say, this request is coming in from France or let's say, it's coming in from the Netherlands or Japan. If we would want to customize this message to where the request is coming from, I cannot say Good Morning to everybody. Probably to somebody in France, I would need to say, Bonjour and things like that. 

Internationalization might be a complex topic, especially if you have data from databases also that needs to be internationalized. In this example, we'll look at simple data from the messages, which is going to be internationalized. 

The locale comes as part of our request header. We need to tell that. So, RequestHeader. Now, let's import this in. I'll use Spring framework's request header. As part of request header, I need to tell something. I'd need to tell what is the request header that contains this. The request header which would be containing this is Accept-Language. So, based on the Accept-Language header, you decide the locale. The other thing I would want to make sure is, this is not really required, right. So, I don't really want it to be parsed all the time. So, if the Accept-Language is not passed, we'll pick up the default locale. The default locale we have already configured is US. So, I'll say, required=false. 
Accept-Language - fr, nl,us

### /step-18-part-2-internationalization-for-restful-servicesautogenerated.vtt


### /step-19-content-negotiation-implementing-support-for-xmlautogenerated.vtt
Accept application/xml

Welcome back! In this step we will understand another important concept called content negotiation. 
We talked about the fact that in REST resources are the most important things and these resources can have multiple representations. Until now in all our examples we have been using JSON. However, let's say I would want a XML representation of a specific resource. How do we do that? And what are the complexities in doing that? That's what we would discuss in this specific step. 

  <dependency>
      <groupId>com.fasterxml.jackson.dataformat</groupId>
      <artifactId>jackson-dataformat-xml</artifactId>
    </dependency>

**Remove it as it would cause a problem in future steps!**

### /step-20-configuring-auto-generation-of-swagger-documentationautogenerated.vtt

Until now, he created a number of restful services. Let's say I want to share my REST services with my consumers. I can do my. Asked me, what does the contract offer your services? How do I know what would be the response format? How do I know? What is the request format? 
Open Docs API
Swagger is one of the popular documentation format for restroom services in the state. We'll look at how to document our services using swagger. All that we need to

Swagger Vs Open UI
- (2011) Swagger = Swagger specification + Swagger tools (Swagger UI, Swagger Editor etc..)
- (2016) Swagger specification =>  OpenAPI Specification
- (Today) We use OpenAPI specification to specify our API contracts. We use Swagger Tools like Swagger UI to visualize and use the specification.

```
		<dependency>
	      <groupId>org.springdoc</groupId>
	      <artifactId>springdoc-openapi-hateoas</artifactId>
	      <version>1.5.8</version>
	   </dependency>


<dependency>
			<groupId>io.springfox</groupId>
			<artifactId>springfox-boot-starter</artifactId>
			<version>3.0.0</version>
		</dependency>
```

URL - http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html OR http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html

### /step-21-introduction-to-swagger-documentation-formatautogenerated.vtt

In this step, we'll look at the generated documentation in detail. We'll understand what's in our Swagger specification. When we look at the high level, these are the important elements which are present in our Swagger documentation. 
We're saying, we're using Swagger 2.0. That's the version of the specification we're using. 
info tag - high level information about our API
host - where we are hosting the service 
base path , 
tags - group your resources. So for each of your resources and resource methods, you can assign tags and tags can be used to group your resources into multiple categories or things like that. 
Paths include the details of all the resources that we are exposing and the different operations that can be performed on each of these resources. 
I would want to share my service documentation, my resource documentation, my API documentation with my consumer. So I can go and save this as JSON Or I can share this URL with my customers or I can share the link to my Swagger UI as well. So either of these will not be a bad idea. One of the things which we can also do is we can consolidate the details of all the resources which are present. So if there are multiple applications which are exposing resources we can actually have one place where all the documentation is consolidated and exposed using a Swagger UI. The documentation that we generate for our resources. It's very important because this is what our consumers will look at. If you look at the documentation right now, it's not really perfect. In the next step, we'll try and improve it a little more so that the customers or the consumers of the service would be able to understand the service much better. Until the next step, bye-bye

### /step-22-enhancing-swagger-documentation-with-custom-annotationsautogenerated.vtt

	@Bean
	public OpenAPI customize() {
		return new OpenAPI()
				.info(new Info().title("in28minutes User API").description("in28minutes User API Description")
						.version("v0.0.1").license(new License().name("Apache 2.0").url("SOME URL")))
				.externalDocs(
						new ExternalDocumentation().description("Complete Documentation").url("https://LINK-TO-DOCS"));
	}

In the previous step, we looked at some of the documentation that is being generated - Swagger  documentation. Right? We saw a high level overview of the structure of the Swagger documentation as well. One of the things we observed was the info is not exactly to our liking. We can improve this further. I can put a contact in as well. And also there are certain other things which we would like to improve. For example, in the user resource is birth date and its format is date time. But one of the things is we have a validation on the birth date to say the birthdate cannot be in the future. We also have validation on the name saying, it should at least be characters. We need to give that information to the consumers of our service. We'll look at enhancing the documentation that we are producing for our APIs. Let's start with how to improve this description. 
DO IT
I would recommend you to spend some time looking at all these different annotations and maybe giving some of them a try to see how they reflect in the documentation. I'll leave it to you as an exercise. An API documentation is as important as the API and I would recommend you at least a part of your time in designing your APIs. Spend a part of it to document it well as well. Until the next step, bye-bye.

## Step 31 - Updating GET methods on User Resource to use JPA
Video Editing for Editing the Get Method for user